ampr
====

Automatic Multi Path Route

====================================================================================================
===== 0 - Index ====================================================================================

1 - License and acceptable use
2 - Product description
3 - Theory of operation
4 - Examples
5 - Troubleshooting

====================================================================================================
===== 1 - Licence and acceptable use ===============================================================

Copyright (C) 2013 Diego Augusto Molina

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU
General Public Licence Version 2 as published by the Free Software Foundation.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without
even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
General Public Licence for more details.

You should have recieved a copy of the GNU General Public Licence along with this program; if not,
write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307,
USA.

====================================================================================================
===== 2 - Product description ======================================================================

TODO

====================================================================================================
===== 3 - Theory of operation ======================================================================

TODO

====================================================================================================
===== 4 - Examples =================================================================================

TODO

====================================================================================================
===== 5 - Troubleshooting ==========================================================================

Remember that you should first run the program with the "PRETEND=1" option set in your configuration
file in order to see what would actually be done. The program comes with some safe defaults, but
your particular combination of network connectivity and network state may require some tweaking, so
make sure you are also satisfied with the options passed to pingmon. You can use "ampr pìngmon
[options] remote-host" to see what the main program sees, and that might help you to understand why
it is behaving "strange". One of the symptoms of this "strangeness" may be that paths are seen as
slow too soon, or unexpectedly go down. A good choice of remote hosts helps a lot. You can start by
using hosts in the local network to make the first tests.

Send all bug reports to diegoaugustomolina@gmail.com with a subject begginning with "[ampr]" and
attach the troubleshooting report file generated by ampr when provided "TROUBLESHOOT=1" in the
configuration file. The bug report should contain any output of the program that you think is
valuable, a description of the working environment, like how connectivity is set, and any other
"relevant" information. Feel free to change the actual addresses, networks, names, etc. in order to
preserve your privacy. I'm personally not interested in that boring information, but you may want to
save it from other viewers. But REMEMBER to mask the actual characters of the play in such a fashion
that the actual scenario can be reproduced. Otherwise you may not get the help you need.  If you do
care about your organization's privacy, remember to review and edit the troubleshooting file report
before sending it. The most important thing it has is the configuration file you provided ampr.

